Authors:
    Diehl, Kristin1
    Poynor, Cait2
Source:
    Journal of Marketing Research (JMR). Apr2010, Vol. 47 Issue 2, p312-322. 11p. 3 Charts. 
Document Type:
    Article
Subject Terms:
    *CONSUMERS' preferences
    *CUSTOMER satisfaction
    *PRODUCT lines
    *BRAND mobility
    *CONSUMER behavior
    *CONSUMERS -- Attitudes
    *EXPECTATION (Psychology)
    *INTERNET searching
    *ONLINE shopping
    *DECISION theory
    INFORMATION overload
    DISAPPOINTMENT -- Economic aspects
    ECONOMIC aspects
Author-Supplied Keywords:
    assortment size
    choice overload
    expectation disconfirmation
    information overload
    satisfaction
NAICS/Industry Codes:
    454113 Mail-Order Houses
    454111 Electronic Shopping
    454110 Electronic shopping and mail-order houses
Abstract:
    Recent research challenges the idea that greater choice is always desirable, showing that larger assortments can increase choice deferral and switching. The current research demonstrates that even when consumers make a purchase, the same item may generate lower satisfaction when chosen from a larger rather than a smaller assortment. The authors explain this effect in terms of an expectation-disconfirmation mechanism. When assortments are small, consumers have low expectations about their ability to match their preferences. As assortment sizes increase, so do consumers' expectations of the degree of preference match they can achieve. Subsequently, consumers may experience greater negative expectation disconfirmation or less positive expectation disconfirmation when a chosen item comes from a larger rather than a smaller set. Either less positive or more negative disconfirmation leads to lower choice satisfaction. The results from three studies support this expectation-based process and establish this mechanism in addition to alternative explanations, such as choice overload. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR] 
 
    Copyright of Journal of Marketing Research (JMR) is the property of American Marketing Association and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. (Copyright applies to all Abstracts.)
Author Affiliations:
    1Assistant Professor of Marketing, Marshall School of Business, University of Southern California.
    2Assistant Professor of Marketing, Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh.
ISSN:
    0022-2437
DOI:
    10.1509/jmkr.47.2.312
Accession Number:
    48445030
