Authors:
    Hadar, Liat1 lhadar@idc.ac.il
    Sood, Sanjay2
Source:
    Psychological Science (Sage Publications Inc.). Sep2014, Vol. 25 Issue 9, p1739-1747. 9p. 
Document Type:
    Article
Subject Terms:
    *DECISION making
    *PRODUCT information management
    MOTIVATION (Psychology)
    META-analysis
    HYPOTHESIS
Author-Supplied Keywords:
    choice overload
    choice-set size
    subjective knowledge
Abstract:
    People find it appealing to have more options to choose from, but the provision of choice often leads to adverse consequences for decision makers' motivation, satisfaction, and willingness to act. We propose that the effect of the number of choice options on willingness to purchase is moderated by people's subjective knowledge (SK). The results of three studies provide converging evidence that, paradoxically, people who feel unknowledgeable (low-SK people) in a certain domain are especially willing to purchase when more choice options are available, which is consistent with the notion of "more is better." This pattern is reversed for people who feel knowledgeable (high-SK people), which is consistent with prior evidence for choice overload. We also show that this pattern is influenced by the informativeness of the features of the available choice options and that subjective knowledge mediates this effect. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR] 
 
    Copyright of Psychological Science (Sage Publications Inc.) is the property of Sage Publications Inc. and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. (Copyright applies to all Abstracts.)
Author Affiliations:
    1Arison School of Business, Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya
    2Anderson School of Management, University of California, Los Angeles
ISSN:
    0956-7976
DOI:
    10.1177/0956797614539165
Accession Number:
    98498605
