Authors:
    Stanton, Julie V.
    Paolo, Diane M.
Source:
    Journal of Fashion Marketing & Management. 2012, Vol. 16 Issue 4, p454-476. 23p. 
Document Type:
    Article
Subject Terms:
    *SHOPPING
    *CONSUMER confidence
    *CONSUMERS' preferences
    *STRATEGIC planning
    *MARKETING strategy
    INFORMATION overload
    CLOTHING & dress
Author-Supplied Keywords:
    Choice
    Consumer behaviour
    Consumer confidence
    Coping strategies
    Fashion industry
    Information management
    Information overload
    Leader/follower status
    Shopper orientation
NAICS/Industry Codes:
    448140 Family Clothing Stores
    448190 Other Clothing Stores
    414110 Clothing and clothing accessories merchant wholesalers
    315210 Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors
Abstract:
    Purpose – This study aims to examine the nature and impact of information overload and related coping strategies in the context of apparel shopping. It also examines perceptions of overload and coping strategies as antecedents to consumer confidence, shopping orientation and leader/follower status. Design/methodology/approach – Focus groups and previous literature are used to develop components for a survey of US consumer perceptions. The 205 valid responses were factor analyzed to identify components of information overload and coping strategies, and cluster analysis was used to identify groupings of consumers around those constructs. Findings – Consumer segments that result from cluster analysis show meaningful descriptions regarding information flow, over-choice and coping strategies. Segments also differ on confidence level, shopping orientation and fashion leadership in ways that appear logically related to their information and coping strategy perspectives. Research limitations/implications – The study does not explore the underlying psychological and intellectual processes that influence attitude toward information flow and coping strategies. Practical implications – By categorizing consumer attitudes toward and strategies for coping with too much information, the study offers the industry insight into how modern marketing strategies may backfire rather than create knowledgeable consumers ready to adopt the latest products made available to them. Originality/value – This study is the first to view information overload and coping strategies as antecedents to confidence, shopper orientation and fashion leadership. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR] 
 
    Copyright of Journal of Fashion Marketing & Management is the property of Emerald Group Publishing Limited and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. (Copyright applies to all Abstracts.)
Full Text Word Count:
    9009
ISSN:
    1361-2026
DOI:
    10.1108/13612021211265854
Accession Number:
    80139010
